# Chapter 2: Survey Methodology for Agricultural Data Collection

This chapter reviews the general insights from the survey design literature and recent innovations in agricultural data collection which inform agricultural module design choices. It is important to remember that survey design for multi-topic household surveys is a relatively new and interdisciplinary endeavor. De Heer et al. (1999) discuss the history of survey design, documenting how innovations in sampling methods, data collection techniques, and statistical methods for data analysis were developed in the 1930s. The early field of survey research emphasized limiting measurement error and nonresponse through protocols developed in surveys conducted by Bowley and Burnett-Hurst (1926) to measure poverty among the working class in England. Agricultural measurement and related issues of non-random measurement error have been discussed in some of the earliest work by Fisher (1926) and Working (1925),[^1] but also have important overlap with survey methodology as discussed in the statistics, applied econometrics, development economics, and labor economics fields.

The survey methodology literature has focused on minimizing bias relative to the cost of improved data collection in framing the questionnaire design problem as minimizing total survey error (Gideon, 2012). Total survey error can be disaggregated into sampling error and non-sampling error, where this volume focuses primarily on the latter. The questionnaire design affects non-sampling error, which can be further disaggregated into non-response errors (for example refusals, missing data, respondent not knowing) and response errors (such as question framing, question sequencing, and social desirability bias). While this framework is useful in considering sources of sampling and measurement error in survey response, a researcher faces additional decisions and tradeoffs in the research design process. Minimizing total survey error with expensive measurement methods ignores the research design cost-variance tradeoff and the full set of research design choice variables. For example, in the case where the researcher completely conceives of the research design, a researcher chooses an identification strategy along with the questionnaire design and a sample size using a sampling strategy given their budget constraint. A researcher may be willing to accept some measurement error if reducing such error reduces the statistical power of the research design. If a researcher is implementing a randomized controlled trial, measurement error that is not correlated with treatment status may not bias estimates, whereas in a non-experimental design measurement error might bias parameter estimates.

To conceptualize more carefully these research design tradeoffs and to emphasize the point that questionnaire design is one set of choices among many in the research design, which include an identification strategy, sampling strategy and field implementation protocol, Dillon et al. (2020) introduce the idea of the data quality production function. The researcher's objective is to maximize knowledge or evidence generated from the research project. The researcher makes choices about the identification strategy, statistical power and external validity that are subject to budget constraints and the data quality production function. The data quality production function includes questionnaire design choices, but also interacts with the other choice variables such as sampling, empirical approach and field implementation protocols and constraints. From the perspective of NSOs designing surveys for both policy and potential research purposes, additional constraints need to be considered when designing agricultural surveys, including financial resource availability, personnel capacity, and competing demands on and mandates of the agency. Considerations for designing surveys to meet the needs and constraints of NSOs is further discussed in Chapter 6.

The history of the Living Standard Measurement Study surveys began in the 1980s as part of a concerted effort at the World Bank to provide global poverty measures and support the statistical capacity of developing country governments to collect household data. The Grosh and Glewwe (2000) manuals on questionnaire design were an important consolidation of field knowledge and research on questionnaire design that resulted from the Living Standard Measurement Study survey program. An early innovation in the LSMS approach and in papers such as Deaton and Zaidi (2002) was the clear discussion between the theoretical motivation for estimating an empirical relationship and its linkage to questionnaire design in a multi-topic household survey. Since these seminal works, research on questionnaire design has continued to improve the internal validity of empirical estimates through improved measurement and data quality that reduces bias from non-random measurement error.

In the late 2000s, earlier surveys with limited agricultural modules used household level reporting but did not establish a clear linkage between agricultural inputs and outputs. The inherent tradeoff in a multi-topic household survey is how to maximize potential empirical analysis within and across modules given survey budget and respondent fatigue constraints. Carletto et al. (2010, 2015) outlined the methodological innovations in designing integrated agricultural modules in a multi-topic household survey. If surveys were going to inform food price policy, poverty reduction in rural areas, or agricultural policy to improve farm productivity, agricultural modules needed to better measure the relationship between inputs and outputs at the plot level, measure changes in agricultural livelihoods over time and account for seasonality. These innovations raised a host of survey design considerations and the potential to integrate cost-effective technologies through computer assisted personal interviewing (CAPI) and GPS devices both of which necessitated a research program using survey design experiments to better inform the tradeoffs and potential biases from survey design choices. Below, we review what has been learned from these survey experiments and the broader literature since the Grosh and Glewwe (2000) agricultural chapter.

We first present a framework for thinking about research design and questionnaire design where the objective is to generate as much knowledge as possible. We then focus on questionnaire design choices that researchers make including the units of analysis of agricultural measurement, respondent choice, recall periods, module sequencing, question phrasing, and panel data design. We outline the theoretical motivation for some of the design choices and how innovations in questionnaire design have addressed non-classical measurement error. In our review of specific modules in subsequent chapters, we emphasize questionnaire design choices that may reduce measurement error, but also highlight where choices represent tradeoffs in research design whose objective may not be to solely reduce measurement error if identifying a specific empirical objective is compromised due to cost tradeoffs.

## Innovations in Research on Survey Design Choices

Given the multitude of potential questionnaire design choices, how does a researcher or NSO decide which choices are most important? While field testing and piloting strategies are often used to improve survey design, an emerging literature uses survey experiments or validation studies to inform either the relative or absolute biases of survey design choices. De Weerdt et al. (2019) provide a recent summary of the survey experiment and validation literature. Survey experiments randomly assign survey design choices to assess their *relative* causal effect. Random assignment provides strong internal validity which is important due to multiple design choices contained in a multi-topic questionnaire. However, the strength of this approach is also a potential limitation. In particular, the measurement error associated with each choice is not measured against 'objective truth'. We can know the tradeoffs between design choices and their magnitude, but both design choices could be measured with error.

Validation studies rely on comparing alternative designs to a predefined truth such as administrative data, an objective measure or repeated observations over time. The advantage of this survey methodology 'methodology' is that the causal effect of survey design choice is estimated relative to this benchmark, quantifying the measurement error associated with each choice. The limitation is that 'objective truth' might not be measured in administrative data if it too is reported with error or the objective measure itself may not have been validated. When validation studies rely on repeated observations to assess consistency of responses, assuming that convergence reflects the true survey response, the effect of repeated interviewing may bias estimates. In the remainder of this document, we focus on methodological innovations that have been validated either through survey design experiments or validation studies with an objective measure that has either been deemed the gold-standard approach or validated against the relevant gold-standard.

A survey design literature outlines the importance of module sequencing, question ordering and question phrasing (Iarossi, 2006) in household survey design that is also relevant, but not specific to, agricultural survey design. Surveys should follow a logical sequence, collect relevant information from the best-informed respondent, and be coherent to the respondent. Little methodological research has been implemented on module sequencing as it is presumed feedback from piloting that detailing individual level outcomes within the household via the household roster, education and labor modules, for example, should precede household level outcomes such as consumption, non-food consumption, and household enterprises.

Manski and Molinari (2008) framed the choice of skip sequencing in a module as a formal design process. When including skip sequences, a questionnaire design makes a survey design choice that may increase item nonresponse and response errors leading to non-random measurement error. Manski and Molinari (2008) illustrate that the tradeoff in using skip sequences which reduce respondent burden depends on the likelihood and the cost of item nonresponse and response errors that increase bias in the survey data. If estimates of item nonresponse and response errors could be known from a pilot, a questionnaire design could make a comparison between the bias induced by skip sequences and the survey time cost.

Methodological research has focused on question phrasing including ordering screening questions to make ambiguous concepts clearer or using different word choices. An earlier survey design literature established the importance of question phrasing (Payne 1980; Sudman and Bradburn 1973; Converse and Presser 1986; Fowler 1995; Gideon 2012). General recommendations from this literature focused on the way respondents understand questions in a face-to-face interview. Misunderstanding questions from the respondent's perspective can result from ambiguity, framing, technical wording, or hypothetical construction. Bautista (2012) describes a theoretical model of the survey response process in four steps: the respondent's comprehension of the question, the cognitive process of information retrieval from memory, judgement of the appropriate answer, and communication of the answer. A respondent's answer to questions can also be misreported by enumerators if response categories or the question's intention is not clear to the enumerator, which may result in incorrect administration of the questionnaire.

We summarize key agricultural survey design choices in Table 1, describing these design choices in detailed subsections.

[]{#_Ref40176195 .anchor}Table 1. Survey Design Choices

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Survey design choice**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | **Considerations**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | **Key knowledge gaps**                                                                                                                 | **References**                                                                                                   |
+=============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+=============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+========================================================================================================================================+==================================================================================================================+
| Sampling unit: household vs agricultural holding^a^                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | ***Household***: representative estimate of household welfare, household-run farms, but not of entire agriculture sector; may also not be the right choice for transhumant pastoralists.\                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Integration of farm and household frames                                                                                               | Carletto et al., 2010; Global Strategy to improve Agricultural and Rural Statistics, 2017; FAO 2015a; FAO 2015b. |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | ***Holding***: representative estimates of agriculture sector; no direct link to household welfare; not necessarily the best choice for livestock, forestry, aquaculture production.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | A further consideration is the availability of recent sampling frames, that is, lists of households or holdings. Household frames are usually based on the most recent population and housing census and tend to be more widely available than up-to-date list frames of agricultural holdings which may be based on agricultural registers or the most recent agricultural census.                                                         |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Definitions of the household: production-based vs consumption-based; wording of definition                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | ***Consumption:*** individuals must regularly share meals to be members of the same household.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Impact of household definition agricultural land holding and production                                                                | Beaman and Dillon, 2012; Guirkinger and Platteau (2014); Kazianga and Wahhaj (2013)                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | ***Production:*** Adult individuals co-mingle revenues from agricultural production and non-farm enterprise for consumption.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Issues such as (seasonal) migration and polygamy may complicate the concept of household and varying definitions may affect the measured size and composition of households and have an impact on recorded agricultural production, among others.                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | To produce comparable and reliable agricultural data, surveys need to use comparable and suitable household definitions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Unit of observation for crop production measurement:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | ***Plot/parcel***^b^: production technologies, ownership, and productivity differ across plots within a household, so that the plot is a more appropriate unit of observation to match outputs with inputs, and for understanding dynamics within the household; labor and fertilizer input allocation at plot-level may be more burdensome to recall, while land input, output, and tenure is likely measured more reliably at plot-level. | Quantified impact of measuring at plot vs household level on reported inputs and outputs, and how they compare to an objective measure | Just and Pope, 2001;                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
| Plot/parcel vs household/holding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Plots may change season-on-season, so that tracking plots over time is difficult, while parcels are expected to remain constant.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                                                                                                                                        | Carletto et al., 2017;                                                                                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | ***Household/holding**:* easier to recall when inputs are purchased collectively rather than separately for each plot/parcel; potentially reduces questionnaire length;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                        | Carletto et al., 2010                                                                                            |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Respondent selection:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | ***Self/individual*:** individual reporting considered more reliable than proxy reporting, especially when it comes to capturing gender dynamics; interviewing each respondent individually allows for truthful reporting; may lead to inconsistent reports between different respondents;                                                                                                                                                  | Impact of proxy-reporting                                                                                                              | Ambler et al., 2017; Bardasi et al., 2011; Coates et al., 2010;                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
| self vs proxy respondents; group interviews vs individual interviews                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | ***Proxy reporting*:** less time intensive and methodologically challenging; may lead to overlooking individuals, their contributions and vulnerabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                        | Dillon et al., 2012; Dillon et al., 2021; Doss et al., 2019; Jacobs and Kes, 2015;                               |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        | Janzen, 2018;                                                                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        | Kilic et al., 2020b; Kilic and Moylan, 2016;                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        | Palacios-Lopez et al., 2017;                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        | Serneels et al., 2017                                                                                            |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Recall periods:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | ***Length of recall period:*** important to match recall period with activity appropriate time horizon; longer recall periods increases cognitive burden of recalling events, especially when these are less salient; very short recall periods may lead to double counting;                                                                                                                                                                | Effect of repeated visits on responses (such as through learning, experience)                                                          | Beegle et al., 2012; Gaddis et al., 2019; Kilic et al., 2018;                                                    |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
| length vs number of field visits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | ***Number of field visits***: more visits imply shorter recall periods for outputs and inputs, as do shorter implementation periods; more visits increase fieldwork costs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                                                                                                                        | Wollburg et al., 2020                                                                                            |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Longitudinal surveys:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | ***Choice of panel unit:*** panel may be at the level of the enumeration area, household/farm, parcel, plot, each allowing for more sophisticated analysis but also increasing logistical difficulty and potentially costs; plot is expected to change season-on-season and may therefore not be a suitable panel unit.                                                                                                                     | Effects of long-term panels on sample of farmers and their characteristics                                                             | Garlick et al., 2020;                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
| Panel unit; attrition, representativeness, and tracking; conditioning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | With any choice of panel, attrition is a concern as it leads to attrition bias; tracking split-off households is advisable but increases costs and logistical challenges.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                        | Bevis and Barrett, 2020;                                                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | A representative sample is representative at the time it is drawn, but changes to populations can lead panel samples to lose representativeness over time, which may be aided through refreshing the sample.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                                                                                                                                        | Schündeln, 2018; Zwane et al., 2011                                                                              |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | There are also potential response effects from re-visiting the same households, panel conditioning.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ^a^ According to the FAO World Program of the Census of Agriculture (WCA), the agricultural holding is defined as an "economic unit of agricultural production under single management comprising all livestock kept and all land used wholly or partly for agricultural production purposes, without regard to title, legal form or size."                                                 |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
| ^b^ A parcel is any piece of land of one land tenure type entirely surrounded by other land, water, road, forest or other features not forming part of the holding, or forming part of the holding under a different land tenure type. A plot is defined as a continuous piece of land on which a specific crop or a mixture of crops is grown or which is fallow or waiting to be planted. |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                                                                                                                        |                                                                                                                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

## Survey Design Choices: Units of analysis for agricultural measurement

The unit of analysis is critical for the validity and comparability of empirical estimates. In multi-topic household surveys that include welfare measures based on household consumption as well as production, several issues related to the units of analysis must be addressed in the context of a nationally representative survey.

*Households*

In defining the population frame, is the relevant unit of analysis the household, farm, holding, or enterprise? A national survey of the agricultural, manufacturing or industrial sector would not necessarily focus on the household as the relevant unit of analysis. Agricultural censuses use a population frame defined by agricultural holdings, acknowledging that both small-scale farms operated by the majority of rural farmers and agri-industrial farms of larger scale contribute to the agricultural sector. Using a household population frame would inherently exclude larger scale enterprises and farms that are not operated by households. As the analytical objective of the LSMS surveys has focused on poverty measurement and the determinants of changes in household welfare, the household is the relevant unit of analysis which can still inform how policy changes agricultural productivity, poverty, and other facets of rural livelihoods. As a nationally representative household survey, the household as the unit of analysis is inherently microeconometric in approach as opposed to providing a sector-representative sample. By using the household as the unit of analysis, we do not estimate agricultural sector indicators, as the sample will exclude farm enterprises that operate in the private sector as opposed to within agricultural households (Table 1).

How exactly is the household defined in the context of extended and nuclear family overlapping responsibilities in production, income sharing, and social connectedness? Household definitions differ widely across surveys and have important measurement implications in part because social and economic definitions of the household diverge (Beaman and Dillon, 2012), especially in communities with extended farming families with land inheritance claims, common production of family lands, or complicated use-rights. Key words in the definition of the household in multi-topic household surveys vary depending on their survey purpose and can emphasize either a family structure such as the nuclear family, consumption requirements such as eating from a 'common pot', or production based definitions that include requirements that adults co-mingle revenues from agricultural production and non-farm enterprise for mutual consumption. The household definition matters from an agricultural perspective as who is included in the household will be included in modules on agricultural land holdings, labor, assets, and marketing decisions. In polygamous households, multiple adult farmers, competing land use rights, and collective agriculture for some plots may be key features of the agricultural production system that nuclear definitions of the household may exclude. Empirical studies of polygamy and agriculture have incorporated wider definitions of the household to measure the complexities introduced in production (Guirkinger and Platteau, 2014; Kazianga and Wahhaj, 2013). Definitions of the household that exclude agricultural producers lower reported agricultural production. Residency requirements also complicate measurement of pastoralist activities when transhumant pastoralism is used by the household.

Beaman and Dillon (2012) show that consumption and production key words in the definition of the household do not alter household size estimates, but do affect household composition. Hess et al. (2001) describe the results of the Census Bureau's Questionnaire Design Experimental Research Survey where individual- and household-level measures were collected. They find that with the exception of asset data and health insurance prevalence reporting that household level enumeration of survey questions provided equivalent estimates to that of individual level data for demographic and government transfer reporting. Given the costs of collecting individual level data, they conclude that household level data are preferable, but the type of variable likely affects data quality and differences in reporting biases attributable to the unit of analysis (Table 1).

*Plots*

In the design of agricultural modules, household level measurement of agricultural inputs and outputs did not correspond well with production technologies and reasonable assumptions about these technologies as represented in the literature on production and profit function estimation (Chambers 1988; Chambers and Quiggin 2000; Just and Pope 2001). An important survey design choice has been selecting a better unit of analysis than the household to measure agricultural production. Measuring productivity and input use at the plot is consistent with the production literature, but multiple cropping, seasonality, and distinctions between plot owners and plot managers create new measurement challenges in attributing inputs to agricultural outputs.

Tradeoffs in measurement error related to different units of analysis also imply different empirical applications. Nationally representative surveys such as FAO's Agricultural Census provide useful agricultural information which may be preferred to a household or plot level analysis if the researcher wants to make sector specific analysis related to farm size when a country has large scale commercial farms, infer changes in agricultural labor markets, or analyze changes in agricultural businesses. LSMS survey design is motivated by empirical analysis that can be tested using an agricultural household model (Singh et al., 1986).

Across different agricultural systems, the vocabulary associated with an agricultural landholding may also differ. Farmers use different words to indicate their farm, parcel and plot, often with contradictory meanings. It is important that agricultural survey design reflect a clear conception of the hierarchy of units consistent with the agricultural system that is being measured. Carletto et al. (2016) provide an overview of land area measurement survey design issues, noting differences in units of land measurement as well as variation across LSMS-ISA surveys in land reporting units. The holding, parcel, field and plot have internationally accepted definitions, though their interpretations by both academics, NSOs, and policy makers often lead to ambiguity.

The definition of the agricultural holding is the primary unit of analysis in agricultural surveys, whereas the household is the primary unit of analysis in household surveys. FAO (2015a) defines the agricultural holding as, "economic unit of agricultural production under single management comprising all livestock kept and all land used wholly or partly for agricultural production purposes, without regard to title, legal form or size\..." Holdings can be divided into parcels and the FAO notes that the difference between the holdings land sub-units are distinguished such that "A field is a piece of land in a parcel separated from the rest of the parcel by easily recognizable demarcation lines\.... A field may consist of one or more plots, where a plot is a part or whole of a field on which a specific crop or crop mixture is cultivated, or which is fallow or waiting to be planted." (FAO, 2015a). When designing and implementing an agricultural survey, practitioners should confirm the tiers and definitions used by the national statistical office as they may not coincide with the FAO definitions. Note that the reference questionnaire included in Appendix I utilizes only the parcel and plot tiers, as this is common in many contexts.

Recording agricultural information at the household level inherently aggregates individual production and imposes a linearity assumption across plots for input utilization and asset use. The main tradeoff in recording agricultural information at the plot level is that farmers must recall input allocation at the plot level which requires more cognitive effort and response time. These recall biases may be compounded by proxy response bias as plot level self-reporting is time consuming in the field and may be not feasible for all survey responses. Proxy respondents may have incomplete information on plots managed by other household members. For farmers who purchase inputs collectively with their family for multiple plots, it may be difficult to accurately assess how much fertilizer, seed, or other input was applied to a particular plot. Consistent with time use data, it may also be difficult for a farmer to recall individual household labor allocations to particular plots over an agricultural season or with respect to particular agricultural tasks. While more research is needed to understand the measurement implications of the disaggregation of input and production data to the plot level from the household level, the known analytical advantages of doing so, such as analysis of male-managed plots vis-à-vis female-managed plots, likely outweighs the unknown risk of aggregation in many surveys, including the LSMS-ISA.

Due to variation in land tenure status and land use rights, it is also important to account for seasonality in production on plots and changes in plot management when considering the unit of analysis. Depending on the agricultural season, a plot may be cultivated by a different member of the household and use different levels of inputs along with different cropping choices. Researchers have often cited asymmetries in crop type and input use, and therefore productivity and earnings, by plot manager gender. O'Sullivan et al. (2014) estimate that, after controlling for plot size and region, productivity differences across male and female-managed plots in Africa range from 23-66 percent. In order to appropriately account for plot-level production, and to enable analysis of the timing of production and gender asymmetries, both season and plot manager should be considered. The plot manager may differ from one season to the next, depending often on gender-based norms.

## Survey Design Choices: Respondents

A larger discussion within the survey design literature is estimating the potential bias from self-reporting versus proxy reporting (Moore, 1988; Krosnick, 1999). In labor modules that collect earnings data, it is presumed that self-reported data may be the most accurate as respondents have full information regarding their earnings which may not be fully disclosed to other household members. This assumes that self-respondents do not have incentives to mis-report information if they think that lower earnings increase their probability of future program participation or transfer. Bardasi et al. (2011) found in the context of labor market modules that using proxy responses as opposed to individual self-reports had no effect on female labor statistics, but that proxy reports did lead to under-reporting of men's participation rates in agricultural activities. Kilic et al. (2020a) also find significant impacts of respondent strategy in the collection of labor data in their analysis of two concurrent surveys in Malawi. They find that the use of the common approach which allows proxy and non-private interviewing results in significant underreporting of employment relative to measurement via private, self-respondent interviews, with stronger effects for women (Kilic et al., 2020a).

Kilic et al. (2020b) find that the common practice of proxy land reporting results in different findings for land assets than with self-response reporting. The use of proxy reporting by the "most knowledgeable household member" results in higher rates of exclusive reported and economic ownership of agricultural land among men, and lower rates of joint reported and economic ownership among women as compared to individual, self-respondent interviews.[^2]

Dillon et al. (2021) also look directly at the effects of proxy response on agricultural statistics including gender dimensions of proxy response using a survey experiment with household heads, random proxies and self-reports. They find no effects of respondent type on total landholdings reported for the household, but statistically significant effects of area cultivated by random proxy reports relative to self-reported land data (11 percent of the standard deviation). Effect sizes are much larger on land reported by household heads and random proxies relative to self-reports for field crops and pasture land. Household heads also over-report production of cereals, cash crops and crop diversity as computed by crop diversity scores, relative to self-reports. Household heads (+ 18 percent of a standard deviation) and random proxies (- 37 percent of a standard deviation) also provide different biases relative to self-reported agricultural labor. Female proxies report lower levels of fertilizer for the household and higher frequencies of crops such as legumes and vegetables that women traditionally produce in Burkina Faso.

## Survey Design Choices: Recall periods

Recall periods for agricultural statistics require consideration of the different frequencies and seasonal timing of input decisions and harvest periods. The number and timing of survey visits will have immediate implications on the recall periods employed in the survey. Survey visits may be employed once per year (with recall for the full year), in two visits per agricultural season (one at the post-planting stage to collect data on preparation and planting and a second visit after the harvest, to inquire about harvest and sales activities), or more than two visits. The more frequent the survey visits, the less recall the survey requires. We recommend the implementation of a two-visit approach where feasible, as this offers a balance of practical implementation feasibility and limited recall bias. The reference questionnaire in Appendix I assumes a two-visit approach and therefore includes separate post-planting and post-harvest questionnaires. If a two-visit approach is not feasible due to budgetary or time constraints, a one-visit option may be employed. However, one-visit surveys often bear a heavy respondent burden as data for the full season, or multiple seasons within the year, as asked about in one sitting.

In the context of an LSMS survey in particular, or any agriculture focused survey that is also measuring household consumption, a tradeoff in survey implementation arises when sampling designs spread survey implementation over a 12 month period to balance consumption seasonality. This survey implementation choice then creates variation in the recall period for production and input information. Recall bias depends on the salience of the event reported, its frequency and the time period over which information must be recalled. For different types of agricultural activities, salience can vary. For example, labor inputs from household members may be frequent during the planting period and difficult to recall while fertilizer costs incurred during the planting season may be easier to recall as a large expenditure would be significant to farmers. Survey designers have some discretion over the length of the recall period by choosing the timing and number of field visits during the agricultural year.

Gaddis et al. (2019) and Arthi et al. (2018) use methodological validation studies to analyze the impact of recall on the measurement of agricultural labor in Ghana and Tanzania, respectively. In Tanzania, seasonal recall of agricultural labor at the person-plot level, a common method employed, resulted in reported labor up to four times the number of hours reported through weekly interviews (Arthi et al., 2018). Similarly, Gaddis et al. (2019) find that agricultural labor is overestimated by approximately ten percent through the seasonal recall approach vis-à-vis weekly interviews in Ghana. Both findings, while different in magnitude, suggest that a seasonal recall approach to agricultural labor measurement may result in underestimated labor productivity.

Beegle et al. (2012) estimate potential biases due to differences in recall periods in surveys conducted in Malawi, Kenya and Rwanda. Due to the design of these surveys which were implemented over a 12-month period with clusters randomly assigned for interview across regions, recall of agricultural input choices and harvest period outcomes were de facto randomly assigned depending on when the household was interviewed. The authors find no evidence of bias in harvested quantities across the three countries, examining both staple and cash crops. Malawian tobacco farmers did over-report the cash value of their harvest, while also under-estimating fertilizer use as recall periods increased. Households did not exhibit recall bias with respect to fertilizer use for staple crops, except for female-headed households that cultivated maize. Longer recall periods lowered reported fertilizer use for female-headed maize crop cultivators. Recall bias was important in hired labor reporting, but the direction of these biases varied by country. Beegle et al. (2012) results suggest over-reporting in Kenya and under-reporting of hired labor in Malawi as recall periods increase. Recall bias tended to differ by subgroup, even if overall trends were not statistically significant. While there were no significant recall effects for Rwandan sorghum and coffee farmers, coffee farmers with small landholdings did under-report hired labor as recall periods increased. Using a similar identification strategy, Wollburg et al. (2020) find the recall period length consistently affects farmer reporting of plots listed, labor and other inputs, and maize production in Malawi and Tanzania, an effect that carries over to common measures of agricultural productivity. This is related to the design choice of number and timing of field visits, as more visits and shorter roll-out periods reduce the length of the recall period.

## Survey Design Choices: Minimizing attrition in longitudinal surveys

Agricultural surveys may be administered either cross-sectionally or longitudinally. Longitudinal surveys, or *panel* surveys, offer additional benefits in terms of monitoring change over time for the same households. In panel surveys such as the LSMS-ISA, households (or other units of analysis) are tracked from survey round to survey round. This often requires specialized fieldwork teams that are responsible for using the information collected in previous rounds and at the suspected place of residence, to locate and interview (i) households that have moved from their previous residence and (ii) households that have "split-off" from the original survey household, such as when household members leave the original survey households to create their own household. If households are not tracked successfully, or they refuse to participate in future survey rounds, this results in attrition. While panel surveys offer analytical advantages, attrition poses a risk to the representativeness of the panel sample over time.

Survey design choices can reduce attrition by facilitating tracking with high quality data, but it can also capture information on potential reasons for household attrition that might be used to quantify and assess attrition bias. The literature on attrition bias has primarily focused on household and individual attrition. After reviewing 13 national panel surveys in developing countries, Hill (2004) found that mobility was the greatest source of attrition bias. Fitzgerald et al (1998) and Witoelar (2011) provide a general review of the attrition issues in longitudinal surveys while Thomas et al. (2012) discuss low cost design protocols that limited attrition in the context of the Indonesia Family Life Survey.

In even the most remote villages, a variety of information based on how households and individuals are connected to each other can help reduce attrition by finding respondents, but also understanding the sources of attrition. The principle in survey design to facilitate tracking individuals and their households is to build in triangulated sources of information on a particular individual or household in case one source of information does not lead to success in tracking the observation. Mobile phones are frequent in many rural contexts and are useful sources of information about the individual or household itself as well as friends who might know how to contact the individual or household.

In the context of agricultural modules specifically, the survey design choice depends on the researcher's preference for panel or repeated cross-sections of a household's land portfolio. The literature on repeated cross-sections in estimating poverty dynamics is well-established with empirical strategies that are replicable in the context of agricultural surveys (see for example, Deaton (1985), Antman and McKenzie (2007), Dang et al. (2014)). In the context of agricultural modules, identification of parcels and plots over time is greatly improved with the use of GPS coordinates that can help identify locations across surveys. However, interview costs increase considerably if each parcel and plot must be visited in each survey round. While parcel or plot panels may facilitate the estimation of dynamic agricultural modules, recall of parcels and plots across survey rounds is nontrivial. LSMS-ISA surveys have implemented parcel panels in select countries with success, but have not employed plot panels primarily due to the fluid nature of plot dimensions within a given parcel over time. Approaches to address recall bias include naming parcels and plots, drawing maps, or taking plot characteristics from previous survey rounds into subsequent rounds, but little research has been done outside of piloting to provide an estimate of bias reduction due to different recall methods.

