# Chapter 7: Conclusions and Future Directions for Agricultural Survey Design

In the 20 years that followed the Ghosh and Glewwe (2000), Designing Household Survey Questionnaires for Developing Countries volumes, innovations in agricultural survey design have expanded the set of answerable policy and research questions by filling data gaps, along with improving the quality of descriptive statistics that are critical to development monitoring and planning. This volume has focused on an approach to agricultural survey design that considers not only the objective of limiting measurement error through survey design, but also the tradeoffs that NSOs, researchers, policymakers and other stakeholders face when designing and using agricultural data. While the recommendations and design choices found in the reference questionnaires have evolved from the LSMS team's collaborations with NSOs, different studies and partnerships may find different data requirements are useful for achieving alternative survey objectives. Agricultural survey design must consider the real tradeoffs that field implementation and partnerships necessitate in concert rather than independently of the econometric consideration of minimizing measurement error to increase statistical precision and improve internal validity.

In this chapter, we take stock of future directions in agricultural survey design which may help guide a future methodological research agenda as well as stimulate debate about best practices. We highlight opportunities to expand the application of publicly collected data sets through data integration and the challenges of measuring fundamental agricultural concepts such as farmer preferences, labor, profitability and land.

## Data Integration

The value of agricultural survey data can be increased through integration with other data sources. Integration of household survey and alternative data sources, such as telephone surveys, administrative records and geospatial data, can result in analytical gains from both sources and more precise measurement of variables when self-reports are not reliable. Household survey data, therefore, should be viewed as a complement to other data sources, not a substitute. Integrating supplementary data with household surveys is a trend for which increased investment by NSOs, researchers, international organizations and policymakers would yield a wider range of policy analysis. The integration of remotely sensed agricultural, ecological, and climate data is not uncommon in agricultural analysis, but the costs of such integration are often high. In Chapter 3, we highlight the potential of remotely sensed data. Here we also highlight limitations in terms of validation study requirements to calibrate remotely sensed data for 'ground-truthing' and the limitations of what can be imputed from remotely sensed crop images, particularly for tree and tuber crops and in intercropped areas. While these limitations are not trivial, remotely sensed plot data would permit a much leaner agricultural survey instrument which may improve self-reported variables on land use and production information. Without household survey integration, remotely sensed data itself does not satisfy most data requirements for policy analysis which require linking inputs and the use of production.

With careful design, agricultural survey data also has the potential to be integrated with administrative or census data. With the proper identifiers in the survey data to allow matching between the two sources, survey data can be merged, for example, with firm data linking employee- and employer-reported data, such as that done by de Nicola and Giné (2014) for fishing communities in India, or with microfinance or agricultural lender data to match access to credit with agricultural practices and outcomes. Agricultural administrative data are often under-utilized, in part, because extension data systems may not be well developed or data systems in Ministries of Agriculture may not be always linked to the National Statistical Office. Particularly in irrigated agricultural areas or commercial agricultural settings, administrative data on inputs such as water use, technology adoption, or crop yields can be of high quality. Where household surveys may also have the most promise in integrating with extension data sources are on topics of agricultural and environmental practices. A promising opportunity for integration may come with the expansion of digital, mobile and smart phone-based delivery of agricultural extension services, discussed for instance in Fabregas et al. (2019).

A promising innovation with potential applications for measuring physical activity, productivity and time use is wearable technology such as accelerometers worn either specifically for measurement purposes or embedded in mobile phones. Akogun et al. (2020) validate physical activity measures relative to individual farmer harvesting productivity, demonstrating that physical activity measures are highly correlated with work effort. They also document potential uses and limitations of accelerometers for physical activity and productivity measures. Friedman et al. (forthcoming) illustrate a use case for physical activity data in understanding intra-household energy expenditure in rural settings. As the measurement of labor variables is one of the most challenging self-reported survey design problems, improved data integration using accelerometers and household surveys remains promising.

Lastly, we highlight telephone surveys as a survey mode that could be integrated to measure higher frequency outcomes such as labor, agricultural sales or food stocks. Telephone surveys have been heavily integrated into field operations in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in limitations on in-person interviews. Literature on telephone surveys in developing countries existed before the pandemic (see for example, Dabalen et al. 2016), but the global pandemic has resulted in a renewed interest in telephone survey methodology. Existing literature suggests that response rates vary substantially by mode. Some response rates are 250 percent higher in computer-assisted telephone interviews (CATI) than interactive voice response surveys or SMS surveys based on metadata from 41 studies in 20 countries, but are significantly improved with small incentives (IPA, 2020). Drawbacks related to response rates and potential selection biases, particularly in the context of agricultural surveys, need to be further explored though improved telephone survey methodologies offer the potential for high frequency agricultural data collection with significant cost savings. Unit of analysis and proxy response are key open concerns for telephone surveys that use random digit dialing.

With integration of supplemental data sources, however, comes increased concern of respondent anonymity. While *open data* is the mantra of development institutions at large, as well as NSOs, respondent confidentiality must be maintained. This entails removing all information that could lead to the identification of respondents, including names, phone numbers, ID numbers, etc. However, integration with additional data sources complicates the anonymization practice, as it becomes easier to re-identify individuals through triangulation, especially those with uncommon characteristics (Heffetz and Ligett, 2014). Maximizing the value of survey data through public dissemination and integration with other sources, while maintaining the privacy of respondents, will encourage sustainable and effective survey operations going forward.

## Measuring Theoretical Concepts More Precisely

The Ghosh and Glewwe volumes highlighted innovations in economic theory and how these ideas were translated to survey questions, generating the data for empirical analysis. As we have highlighted earlier, innovations in relating consumption measures to welfare (Deaton and Zaidi, 2002), labor supply, returns to education, and the agricultural production function, among others, have resulted in improved survey design. There is still more work to do as an evolving scientific field to improve survey design to facilitate empirical analysis. We highlight a few areas of promise below but underscore that these examples are not an exhaustive research agenda.

Longstanding difficulties in measuring agricultural time use on plots or with livestock, not only create data that may be biased by non-classical measurement error but have implicitly restricted the set of potential econometric applications. The profit function is an important example of how restrictions in data quality prevent estimation of an underlying theoretical concept. Agricultural survey design has often adopted a production function approach as input quantities and outputs are more easily recalled by respondents. The limitation of such an approach, particularly for the LSMS-ISA surveys founded to measure welfare and its determinants, is that farmers do not maximize production and production does not necessarily relate to higher welfare as demonstrated in the food security and technology adoption literatures. The policy implications of not measuring profitability are potentially large for agricultural development.

As highlighted in Chapter 3, markets are often difficult to capture in household surveys as households only represent a partial segment of the demand and supply present in an economy. Recording the relevant prices in input, output, farm-gate, and market prices are vague boundaries in a continuum of economic activity and overlapping markets. The difficulty of accurately measuring prices and wages often limits potential structural estimation analysis. The concept 'market access' is inherently flawed when markets exist but may be seasonal or thin. For transactions that are infrequent such as in land or housing markets, the most valuable household assets may not be well captured in household survey samples but be the most consequential transactions from a welfare perspective. High frequency transactions are also consequential to household welfare but may be difficult to measure. Examples of this include food consumed outside of the household which may be difficult to record in household surveys by a main respondent who does not observe food consumption outside of the household (Oseni et al., 2017). In the case of small-scale food producers, frequent small transactions may be difficult to recall for respondents, particularly as recall periods increase. Food markets are fundamental to the agricultural supply chain, but their measurement remains challenging as represented in the above examples.

As a last example, we cite the measurement of preferences and agency as two theoretical concepts that have been widespread importance in empirical analysis. While the literature on risk preferences is extensive in the laboratory setting, preferences, including risk and time inconsistency which are foundational to understanding poverty and investment dynamics, remain omitted in most nationally representative survey data. The insights and econometric applications from behavioral economics have not been fully integrated into multi-topic household questionnaires. A more widely emphasized, but not fully adapted literature on women's empowerment (Alkire et al., 2013; Glennester et al., 2018) is an important example of the importance of improved measures of agency to complement sex-disaggregated data that is largely available in nationally representative surveys.

## Open Measurement Questions for Validation Research 

Our review of the agricultural survey design literature leaves us impressed by the substantial progress the research, policy and national statistical office stakeholders have achieved since the Ghosh and Glewwe (2000) volume on measuring agricultural information. The range of empirical applications that innovations in plot and sex-disaggregated data in agricultural survey design have opened is impressive. We highlight that agricultural survey design is in no way a closed topic. A large and important research agenda of open measurement questions remains with important research and policy implications for farmers throughout the world.

In different sections of this volume, we have highlighted open measurement questions. Agricultural survey design is predicated on land measurement. Though a large literature has focused on the biases of self-reports, open questions on remotely sensed land measures, including the effect of slope and the feasibility of measurement at the plot level in smallholder farming systems, are important to further improve this literature. From a production perspective, open production measurement questions related to root, tuber and tree crops as well as appropriately attributing intercropped plots for yield estimation are important production systems with remaining measurement challenges. With respect to agricultural output, post-harvest loss remains an active area of measurement research, particularly as it relates not only to food waste, but improved profitability measures. In the livestock sector, livestock labor measurement is even more challenging due to unit of analysis and attribution to particular livestock in both sedentary and pastoralist systems of production. There continues to be much to learn with respect to alternative survey modes and the integration of survey modes, particularly when face-to-face interviews may be limited. As stakeholders have responded to public demands to make nationally representative data publicly available, a concurrent set of privacy and geo-referencing challenges are important to balance against the empirical possibilities facilitated by such data. We underscore that earlier measurement challenges, such as those that were identified after the Ghosh and Glewwe (2000) volumes have led to innovations in agricultural survey design. The continued interaction of not a sole set of stakeholders, but the collaboration between research, policy, national statistical office, and donors will facilitate future innovations in agricultural survey design.

#  

